# Timing Report Analysis of Violated Path in Placement Stage

|Project|Author|Start Date|End Date|
|---|---|---|---|
|Timing Report Analysis|A.B.M Tafsirul Islam|26-Feb-2024|1-Mar-2024| 
 
## Objective
After executing the placement step in ORFS we have got the timing report in gui. We have seen the violated timing path in the gui dash board after updating the timing report. In this doccument we will describe details findings about the timing report and analyze them accordingly.

 
## Task
 
### 1. Identifying Violated Paths
- **Objective**: To identify paths within the design that fail to meet specified timing constraints.
- **Method**: Employed advanced timing analysis tools to conduct an exhaustive examination of the design's timing characteristics with tcl scripts for filtering these paths.

- **Steps**:
1. **Timing Analysis Execution**: Initiated timing analysis on the design using the OpenROAD tool with the following steps:

	- `make gui_place` : open the gui shell with placement step
	- `timing report` : click on the timing report on the dashboard to load the timing report
	- `update` : click on the update to show the violated path on the dashboard 

  2. **Timing Reports Analysis**: Thoroughly scrutinized the timing reports generated by the tool to pinpoint paths exhibiting timing violations.
  3. **Path Identification**: Methodically compiled a comprehensive list of paths with identified timing violations based on the analysis results.
 
### 2. Dumping Violated Paths into a File
- **Objective**: To systematically record the list of violated paths for reference and further analysis.
- **Method**: Transferred the compiled list of violated paths into a designated file for ease of access with an automated script
- **Script**: 
```
##################################################
# Author: ABM Tafsirul Islam
# Email: tafsirul.islam@primesilicon.com
# Version: 1.0 
# Date: 01/03/2024
##################################################

# open the input file in read mode
set f [open "timing_report.txt" "r"]
# open the csv file to dump the output
set fo [open "timing_report.csv" "w+"]
        puts $fo "Start_point, End_point, Cell, Delay"
# read the input file line by line
while {[gets $f line] != -1} {
    if {[regexp "Start*" $line]} { ; # to extract the "Start Point" line
        set start_point [lindex [split $line] 1] ; # to extract the name of the start point
        puts $fo ",,,"
} elseif {[regexp "End*" $line]} { ; # to extract the "End Point" line
        set end_point [lindex [split $line] 1] ; # to extract the name of the end point
} elseif {[regexp "BUF*" $line] || [regexp "INV*" $line] && ![regexp "CK" $line]} { ; # to extract the lines that contains "BUF" or "INV"
    set buf_name [lindex [split $line] 7]
    set str_buf_name [string map {"(" "" ")" ""} $buf_name] ; # erase the "()"
    set buf_delay [lrange [split $line] 2 3]
    set str_buf_delay [string map {"{}" ""} $buf_delay] ; # erase the "{}"
    puts $fo "$start_point, $end_point, $str_buf_name,$str_buf_delay"   
} elseif {[regexp {\(.*x.*\)} $line] && ![regexp "INV*" $line] && ![regexp "BUF*" $line] && ![regexp "/CLK" $line]} { ; # to extract the std cells
    set std_cell [lindex [split $line] end] 
    set str_std_cell [string map {"(" "" ")" ""} $std_cell]
    set cell_delay  [lreplace [lreplace [lreplace [lreplace [split $line] end end] end end] end end] end end]
    set str_cell_delay [string map {"{}" ""} $cell_delay]
    puts $fo "$start_point, $end_point, $str_std_cell,$str_cell_delay" 
    
} 
}


close $f
close $fo
```

- **Steps**:
  1. **Data Extraction**: Extracted the list of violated paths obtained from the timing analysis reports.
  2. **File Formatting**: Organized the extracted data into a structured format suitable for storage and future reference.
  3. **File Creation**: Created a dedicated file, named "timing_report.txt" to house the documented list of violated paths. This step was done manually by the following command:
  
		```
		report_checks -from <strart_point> -to <end_point> >> timing_report.txt
		```
 
### 3. Differentiating Delays for Standard Cells, Buffers, and Inverters
- **Objective**: To carefully examine and differentiate the delay caused by standard cells, buffers, and inverters in the design.
- **Method**: Conducted comprehensive delay characterization on each cell type to elucidate their individual impact on timing.
- **Steps**:
  1. **Individual Cell Characterization**: Performed meticulous delay characterization on standard cells, buffers, and inverters separately.
  3. **Documentation**: Documented the intricate findings and disparities in delay characteristics observed among standard cells, buffers, and inverters.
 
## Result
The meticulous execution of the assigned tasks yielded comprehensive documentation of the results:
 
### 1. Violated Paths
A total of 957 paths exhibiting timing violations were meticulously identified and documented. The detailed list of violated paths is meticulously recorded in the file named "timing_report.txt" for easy reference and further analysis.
 
### 2. Dumped Violated Paths into a File
The file "timing_report.csv" serves as a meticulously structured repository housing the compiled list of paths identified with timing violations. Each entry in the file is meticulously described, providing relevant timing information for thorough analysis. Here only the delay of the corresponding buffer,inverter and standard cells are mentioned.
 
### 3. Delay Differentiation
Meticulous delay characterization analysis yielded invaluable insights into the distinct delay characteristics of standard cells, buffers, and inverters within the design. 